
# What is ox_tan?

The ox **t**rading **a**nalysis **n**etwork (ox_tan for short) is a
tool to help keep a trading journal and analyze your trading.

The basic idea is that you can use ox_tan for the following work flow:

  1. You can configure ox_tan to know things like your various entry setups or strategies such as buying on a new high or buying on a bounce from the day's low or whatever you find appropriate.
  1. Any time you make a trade, you can use the `order_notes` command to quickly enter a journal entry with a note about why you made the trade, what the setup or setups were, what your target risk was, and so on.
  1. After downloading your trade confirmations from your broker and uploading them to ox_tan, you can easily link the trades to your journal entries.
  1. You can run some analysis of your accuracy, gains, losses, and so on.
  
# What are some benefits of ox_tan?

First of all, ox_tan is a simple way to track your trades and measure
what works for you and what doesn't. Trading is difficult. It's even
harder if you don't have good data about what you are doing well and
what you need to work on improving.

One benefit of ox_tan as compared to other similar tools is that ox_tan
is completely free to use for as many trades as you like. Part of the
reason it is free is because it runs on your local computer and does
not require storing information in the cloud.

For those who feel uncomfortable using one of the many cloud-based
trade journals, ox_tan also has the feature that all your data is
yours, stored locally on your computer, and never sent off your
computer.

Another benefit of ox_tan is that it stores your trades, notes, and
automatically downloaded quotes in a SQL database. If you have the
skills and interest, you can write your own tools to pull data out of
that database and analyze it in your own way.

# What are some drawbacks of ox_tan?

Since `ox_tan` is a free tool, it may not have as many features as some
of the many excellent paid trade journals.

One potential drawback is that `ox_tan` runs locally on your own
computer and not in the cloud. By default, this means that you can
only access it from your computer and not from anywhere. If you are
technically savvy, you can easily configure your firewall so that any
computer in your local area network can access `ox_tan`. Some may find
the security of having there data locally and not on the cloud a
benefit while others will view this as less convenient. Your mileage
may vary.

Another drawback of `ox_tan` is that it is a bit rough around the
edges. It is used by a number of people who are technically savvy and
happy with something simple. Over time `ox_tan` may add more features
and conveniences. For now, however, it may not be as smooth as paid services.

# Getting Started

To get started, you may wish to view the Quickstart Tutorial in the
help section or go to the main distribution site at
[https://github.com/aocks/trade_analysis](https://github.com/aocks/trade_analysis)
for documentation, downloads, forums, and so on.

